hey my name is Graham maverick senior
editor at Blue Ridge outdoors magazine
I'm here to bring you a video review of
the new trail runner the hook of my
fight take one look at the Hoka
and it's obvious that this shoe is a
little bit different than others in the
same category
well most shoe companies are doing
everything they can to make their shoes
a little bit more minimalist Hoka took
another direction with the masa the shoe
has 50% more surface area than other
trail runners has 30% more cushioning
than other trail runners and somehow
manages to be about 12 percent lighter
than other trail runners in the same
category
now all that extra cushioning is
designed to minimalize the impact from
the heel strike so Hoka claims that the
MOSFET is going to is going to dissipate
80% of the impact from the typical heel
strike in addition they've added a
rocker to the shoe to move you from heel
to forefoot as quickly as possible now
you're going to notice both technologies
the minute you put on the shoe it's a
very cushy shoe and when you start
running in it it has a very springy
effect and you're also gonna feel that
rocker go to work as you move from heel
to forefoot with each stroke I was
actually nervous about taking the Hoka
on technical trails so I started out
with some road runs
if you notice you're actually standing
up quite high with all of this cushion
beneath your foot so I was worried I was
gonna twist an ankle if I started
hitting rooster rocks to perform great
on the road so I decided I take it on
trails and I decided to take it on some
pretty technical single track in Pisgah
I was amazed at how comfortable and
stable I felt while on rocks really
great on steeps now I did feel a bit
unstable when I was running a long
stretches of off camber trails if you
got a trail that's cut into the side of
it hill but not cut flat you're gonna
feel a little bit wobbly on this shoe
the most noticeable characteristic with
the Hoka however was simply how
comfortable it was to run it you get a
springy step with every stride and a
nice soft landing of course this is
going to turn off a lot of folks who are
into the more minimalist approach to
running so if you're looking for a more
streamlined shoe the hook isn't your
choice but if you're looking for a
really comfy trainer to put in long
miles you may want to give the hook a
shot
you can read the full review of the hook
of my foot and the March issue of blue
urge outdoors or see it at Blue Ridge at
doors calm